---
layout: post
title: Pro-Life
tags:
    - politics
published: true
---

There has been a majority of Supreme Court Justices nominated by
Republicans presidents who ran on a Pro-Life platform since 1991, when
George H. W. Bush's second nomination, Clarence Thomas, was confirmed
and became the fifth such appointment, i.e., the fifth appointment by
Reagan and Bush. At that point, fully eight of the nine Supreme Court
Justices were appointed by Republican presidents, although three were
appointed by Republican presidents prior to the Republican party
adding an anti-legalized abortion plank to its platform in 1980. Thus,
for 29 years there have been a majority of "Pro-Life" Justices on the
Supreme Court, yet Roe v. Wade is still the law of the land. Why is
that? Republicans will respond that abortion is a states' rights issue
and changes have been made in various states restricting access to
legal abortions. And, indeed, many Republican-controlled states have
adopted laws restricting access to legalized abortion, both overtly by
restricting when during pregnancy abortions can be performed and
indirectly by restricting who can get abortions, e.g., requiring
parental consent for minors or consent from the father, where
abortions can be performed, and increasing the complexity of getting
an abortion, e.g., requiring waiting periods and requiring the mother
to have an ultrasound performed prior to an abortion. But most of
these restrictions have been struck down by the Supreme Court or by
lower courts with the Supreme Court declining to intervene.

With the passing of RBG, "Pro-Life" Republican voters feel as though
their consistent support for "Pro-Life" candidates will pay off. But
shouldn't it have already paid off by now? Shouldn't it have paid off
at some point in the past 29 years? Shouldn't they feel some shame
that the rationale for not considering Obama's 2016 nominee, in April,
is thrown aside in September of 2020? Shouldn't they feel some shame
for supporting candidates whose actual record on supporting life is
uniformly terrible? Will getting a 6&ndash;3 majority on the Supreme
Court actually pay off? Or will these "Pro-Life" justices simply find
a way to flip two votes instead of one to preserve Roe v. Wade? Time
will tell.

---

The reason I use the term anti-legalized abortion and put the term
"Pro-Life" in quotes is that, strictly speaking, the Republican party
is not pro-life on pretty much every issue _other than_ legalized
abortion. Their immigration policies are not pro-life. Separating
children from parents and putting those seeking asylum from dangerous
situations is not pro-life. Their racial policies, coddling white
supremacist groups, is not pro-life. Their healthcare policies, and
referring to their approach to healthcare as a policy is being very
generous, is not pro-life. Removing access to health insurance and
protections from preexisting conditions is not pro-life.
