---
layout: post
title: Looting
tags:
- politics
published: true
---

My thoughts on looting during protests have evolved a bit over time.
I understand that ultimately looting and violence do not help the
cause.  Indeed, many people use the looting and violence as an excuse
to not support the movement, which is absurd.This is just a
rationalization on their part.  The vast majority of protesters are
peaceful, the looting is most often done by opportunists taking
advantage of the confusion created at protests, and the violence is
almost always initiated by the police or right and left extremists
taking advantage of the confusion.  To this, add the fact that there
is a _large_ overlap in the group of people that oppose the Black
Lives Matter protests and people who oppose further restrictions on
gun access.  So this overlapping group justifies opposing restrictions
on assault weapons and large-capacity magazines on the grounds that
the majority of gun owners who do not kill people should not punished
because of the few who commit murder and mass murder.  They use
similar reasoning to oppose police reforms: you cannot punish all
police because of "a few bad apples."  They then turn around and say
BLM should not protest because of the small fraction of people that
loot or perform acts of violence, even if most of those are not even
BLM protesters.  Despite the fact that, hopefully most would agree,
taking lives is a more serious offense to humanity than damaging some
property.  This is a logical inconsistency.  A harsher
characterization would be hypocrisy.  Harsher still, it is a callow
evasion.  In other words, the people using looting and violence as an
excuse not to support the changes to our racist system demanded by the
protesters are merely trying to shield themselves from criticism for
beliefs they hold regardless of reality.

All that said, there likely are some protesters who, exhausted and fed
up with innumerable aggressions over many years, have their anger
spill over into undirected violence.  To me, and hopefully to anyone
who has ever lost their temper when tired and frustrated, such actions
are at least understandable.

The Monopoly analogy in the video below is not all that new, but the
passion with which it is presented is worth ingesting.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sb9_qGOa9Go" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
